authz: add task for IP allow list and black list on ingress gateway (#6692)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/index.md

---
title: Authorization on Ingress Gateway

> description: How to set up access control on ingress gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to set up access control on an ingress gateway.
```

weight: 50
keywords: [security,access-control,rbac,authorization,ingress,ip,allowlist,denylist]
---

This task shows you how to enforce access control on an Istio ingress gateway
using an authorization policy.

> The authorization policy supports IP-based allow list or deny list and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Istio authorization policy supports IP-based allow lists or deny lists as well as
```

> The authorization policy supports IP-based whitelists or blacklists and

Reviewer 2: nit: since this is being revised, perhaps, adopt allowlist/denylist instead for a more inclusive language?

Author: Thanks, updated to use allow list and deny list.

> attribute-based allow list or deny list previously provided by the Mixer policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the attribute-based allow lists or deny lists previously provided by Mixer policy.
```

    {{< /text >}}

* Update the ingress gateway to set `externalTrafficPolicy: local` to preserve the
original client source IP on the ingress gateway using the following command.
See [Source IP for Services with `Type=NodePort`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-type-nodeport)
for more information.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl patch svc istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system -p '{"spec":{"externalTrafficPolicy":"Local"}}'
    {{< /text >}}

* Verify that the `httpbin` workload and ingress gateway are working as expected using this command.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export INGRESS_HOST=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    $ curl $INGRESS_HOST/headers -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

* Verify the ingress gateway receives the original client source IP address, which
will be used in the authorization policy in this task.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ CLIENT_IP=$(curl $INGRESS_HOST/ip -s | grep "origin" | cut -d'"' -f 4) && echo $CLIENT_IP
    105.133.10.12
    {{< /text >}}

> {{< warning >}}

Author: This is a general warning for all commands used in the task, not for any specific command.

    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: ingress-policy
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: istio-ingressgateway
      action: ALLOW
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
           ipBlocks: ["1.2.3.4", "5.6.7.0/24"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify that a request to the ingress gateway is denied.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl $INGRESS_HOST/headers -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    403
    {{< /text >}}

1. Update the `ingress-policy` to include your client IP address.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: ingress-policy
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: istio-ingressgateway
      action: ALLOW
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
           ipBlocks: ["1.2.3.4", "5.6.7.0/24", "$CLIENT_IP"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

1. Verify that a request to the ingress gateway is allowed.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl $INGRESS_HOST/headers -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. The following command updates the `ingress-policy` authorization policy to set

Reviewer 3: Some peeps will find whitelist/blacklist offensive. If individuals really don't know what an allow or deny list is, the CRD documentation can be improved within the protobufs rather than spelled out in a slew of places all over the documentation. For these reasons, I'd recommend removing `also known as blacklist-style access control`. 

change:

`The following command updates the` -> `Update the ...`

`ingress gateway, ...` -> `ingress gateway:`.

Reviewer 4: Here's more background on the whitelist/blacklist issue:
https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#blacklist

Author: Thanks for the suggestion and the reference, removed.

the `action` key to `DENY` so that the IP addresses specified in the `ipBlocks` are
not allowed to access the ingress gateway, also known as blacklist-style access control:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
    kind: AuthorizationPolicy
    metadata:
      name: ingress-policy
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      selector:
        matchLabels:
          app: istio-ingressgateway
      action: DENY
      rules:
      - from:
        - source:
           ipBlocks: ["$CLIENT_IP"]
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Verify that a request to the ingress gateway is denied.

Reviewer 3: conclude with `:` instead of `.`.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ curl $INGRESS_HOST/headers -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    403
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. You could use an online proxy service to access the ingress gateway that uses a

Reviewer 3: Speculative action requested - imo - should not be in the documentation. Either indicate a direct action in a command block (and change `You could` ->`Use`).

Change `is allowed.` -> `is allowed:` followed by an example.

If that doesn't work, please convert to a callout:
https://istio.io/about/contribute/creating-and-editing-pages/#callouts

different client IP to verify the request is allowed.

## Clean up

> 1. Remove the namespace `foo` from your configuration:

Reviewer 3: remove `from your configuration`

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl delete namespace foo
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Remove the authorization policy:

Reviewer 3: this is correct - no need for redundant `from your configuration` 👍
